Welcome back in this video we would introduce you to the need for something called centralized application
configuration or centralized micro service configuration.
And we would talk about how Spring cloud config server helps us to implement it.
When we talk about the microservices that we would be creating in this course we would be creating something
called currency calculation service currency exchange service and limits service the details of these services are not really
important for now.
But the most important thing that you would need to understand is each of these micro services has its
own configuration.
I would not be surprised of hearing that enterprises with more than 100 200 micro services.
So each of these micro services have their own configuration.
This configuration might be things like database configuration or any external service configuration or
the typical business logic configuration as well.
There are a huge variety of things that would need to be configured for each microService the thing is
there are multiple environment for each of these micro services for example the currency conversion
service might be having Two QA environments and one each of all others the currency exchange service
might have a lot of load on it and it has four production.
environments.
And two QA environments.
And so what we are talking about is the fact that there are multiple microServices sometimes hundreds of them and
for each of these microServices there are multiple environments.
And some of these environement might have multiple instances of the same Microservice.
So we are talking about managing configuration of a lot of different instances of different micro services
managing the configuration individually for each application each environment is a very very difficult
thing.
And that's where centralized configuration comes into picture spring cloud
config server says OK.
You put all the configuration for you applications in a git repository.
And I would take care of managing the configuration and providing it to the specific microService if
limits services says.
OK I would want the configuration for dev environment for limits service.
The spring cloud conflict server would be able to provide it to it if currency calculation services.
OK I would do want the configuration for the third instance of the production environment spring cloud config
server would be able to provide a spring cloud config.
server would act as the centralized.
Microservice configuration application all that you would need to do is to put all the configuration
for these applications for different environment in a git repository and you can connect the spring
cloud config server to git repository and it can serve the configuration based on the different needs
of the different instances in different environments.
For all the Microservices in the screen here we are configuring the values for different instances
of the limits service.
So what we have configured this limits service the default values in here over here we have the properties
for QA environment and over here we have the properties for dev environment.
And based on the requests based on how the limits service requests the spring cloud config server would
be able to provide the appropriate configuration to the limit.
service what we do in the next subsequent steps is use limits service as an example we would create a simple limits
service which would pick up a couple of values from configuration and we would connect the limits.
service to the spring cloud config server spring cloud config server needs a git repository.
We would also create a git repository and connect the spring cloud config server to that git repository.
Other than that we would discuss how to store the configuration for multiple environments of the limits
service and also to retrieve the configuration for a specific environment.
If all this sounds a little confusing don't worry at all.
You'd be discussing about this in the subsequent 10 steps and I am sure by the end of these 10 steps
you will be very clear about the need and how you can configure a spring config server until the next step bye bye.